# 12. Extreme Programming Explained by Kent Beck

<style>
  .back-button {
    background-color: #4CAF50; /* Green */
    border: none;
    color: white;
    padding: 15px 32px;
    text-align: center;
    text-decoration: none;
    display: inline-block;
    font-size: 16px;
    margin: 4px 2px;
    cursor: pointer;
  }
</style>

<button class="back-button" onclick="window.location.href='https://matiaspakua.github.io/tech.notes.io'">All notes</button>

## Table of content 


## Introduction


"Extreme Programming Explained: Embrace Change" is a book written by Kent Beck that describes the principles and practices of Extreme Programming (XP), a software development methodology. Here is a summary of the key concepts presented in the book:

1. Continuous Integration: Don't release anything until it passes all the test. XP emphasizes the importance of integrating code into the main branch of the codebase as frequently as possible. This helps to catch problems early and reduce the risk of integration issues.

2. Test-Driven Development: XP promotes writing automated tests before writing code. This helps to ensure that code meets requirements and reduces the risk of bugs.

3. Refactoring: XP encourages code refactoring, which is the process of improving the design of code without changing its behavior. This helps to keep code clean, maintainable, and scalable.

4. Pair Programming: XP involves two developers working together on a single codebase. This helps to increase collaboration, reduce bugs, and improve code quality.

5. User Stories: XP uses user stories to capture the requirements of a system. User stories are short, simple descriptions of a feature or requirement, and they help to prioritize work and ensure that the code is aligned with customer needs.

6. Continuous Feedback: XP involves seeking feedback from stakeholders and incorporating that feedback into the development process. This helps to ensure that the code meets the needs of customers and stakeholders.

7. Planning Game: XP involves regular planning sessions to prioritize work and ensure that the team is aligned on what work needs to be done.

8. Slack: XP recognizes that developers need time to learn, experiment, and think about problems. The slack time is built into the schedule to allow for this learning and experimentation.

9. Sustainable Pace (no killer schedules): XP emphasizes the importance of working at a sustainable pace, rather than burning out developers. This helps to ensure that the team can maintain its velocity and deliver quality code over the long term.

10. Don't put in anything that's not in the spec (no matter how temped you are to put in functionality "for the future").

11. KIS: keep it simple. Always.

## The rules


## References

- Web: http://www.extremeprogramming.org/rules.html
- Book on amazon: (https://www.amazon.com/Extreme-Programming-Explained-Embrace-Change/dp/0321278658)
