# 2. SCRUM. How we implemented it and work it
<style>
  .back-button {
    background-color: #4CAF50; /* Green */
    border: none;
    color: white;
    padding: 15px 32px;
    text-align: center;
    text-decoration: none;
    display: inline-block;
    font-size: 16px;
    margin: 4px 2px;
    cursor: pointer;
  }
</style>

<button class="back-button" onclick="window.history.back()">Back</button>

## The problem

All start with the classical problem of a big company that starts a project/product. The big company says that’s needs rapid development and release of the versions of the product with new features, less bugs…and so forth.

After a year or so, a new team was assembled and was assigned to the brand new system (here is where I started). They need an agile development process without saying “agile”, so here we started.

## Problem breakdown stages

All the process we walk thought can be summarized in 4 big stages:

### Stage #01: Understand the current system/product. For this is needed:

1. **Familiarize with the business domain**: Before diving into the code, it is important to understand the business domain that the system is serving. This helps to identify the main requirements and the critical business flows that the system should support.

2. **Document review**: Go through the available documentation, like design documents, requirement specifications, and any technical documentation that has been created for the system. (if it exists).

3. **Code review**: Start reviewing the code, focusing on the main modules and flows. Try to understand the architecture and design patterns that have been used.

4. **Test case review**: Review the existing test cases and test plans to understand the expected behavior of the system (if there exists).
Stakeholder engagement: Engage with the stakeholders and end-users of the system to understand their requirements and expectations from the system.

5. **Identify potential risks and challenges**: Identify any potential risks and challenges that might impact the development of the system, such as technical debt, complexity, or missing documentation.

### Stage #02: process and methodology reformulation (houston we have a problem)

After the stage 01, we realize that exist several problems in general, than can be summarized as follows:

1. **Lack of clear requirements and specifications**: If the requirements are not clearly defined, it can lead to miscommunication and confusion between the development team and stakeholders. This can result in the development of features that do not meet the needs of the users.

2. **Insufficient resources**: Lack of resources such as skilled developers, project managers, and adequate infrastructure can impede the development process and lead to delays.

3. **Poor project management**: Poor project management can result in a lack of coordination between teams, missed deadlines, and a lack of accountability.

4. **Technical challenges**: The development process can be impacted by unexpected technical issues that arise during development, such as compatibility issues with existing systems, scalability problems, and security vulnerabilities.

5. **Resistance to change**: A lack of support from stakeholders, especially users, can hinder the implementation of new features, as they may be resistant to change.

6. **Poor quality code**: Code quality is critical to the success of a software development project. Poor quality code can result in bugs, security vulnerabilities, and maintenance issues, leading to delays and additional costs.

7. **Poor testing processes**: Inadequate testing processes can lead to the release of features with bugs and other issues, resulting in a negative impact on user experience and business reputation.

After analyzing those problems, we decided to fix it. To start, we need a methodology, a process and tools. The most important aspect we already have: A GREAT TEAM. This is the basement of success, I don’t know another.

With a little search, it was clear: “Agile” is the way. Agile methodologies are a set of values and principles  that prioritize customer collaboration and adaptive planning. Scrum is one of the most popular Agile methodologies, and it is used to manage and complete complex projects (this was the case). In Scrum, a project is broken down into small and manageable iterations called sprints, and the team works closely with the customer to prioritize and deliver the most valuable features first.

### Stage #03: deconstruction, stabilization and new hope



### Stage #04: Continuous flow of improvements, fixes and evolution 



## References
https://youtu.be/s4thQcgLCqk
and
https://scrumguides.org/scrum-guide.html
